1.1. Humanity stands at a defining moment in history. We are confronted with a perpetuation 
of disparities between and within nations, a worsening of poverty, hunger, ill health and 
illiteracy, and the continuing deterioration of the ecosystems on which we depend for our 
well-being. However, integration of environment and development concerns and greater 
attention to them will lead to the fulfilment of basic needs, improved living standards for 
all, better protected and managed ecosystems and a safer, more prosperous future. No nation 
can achieve this on its own; but together we can - in a global partnership for sustainable 
development

1.2. This global partnership must build on the premises of General Assembly resolution 44/228
of 22 December 1989, which was adopted when the nations of the world called for the United 
Nations Conference on Environment and Development, and on the acceptance of the need to take 
a balanced and integrated approach to environment and development questions.

1.3. Agenda 21 addresses the pressing problems of today and also aims at preparing the world 
for the challenges of the next century. It reflects a global consensus and political 
commitment at the highest level on development and environment cooperation. Its successful 
implementation is first and foremost the responsibility of Governments. 1/ National 
strategies, plans, policies and processes are crucial in achieving this. International 
cooperation should support and supplement such national efforts. In this context, the United 
Nations system has a key role to play. Other international, regional and subregional 
organizations are also called upon to contribute to this effort. The broadest public 
participation and the active involvement of the non-governmental organizations and other 
groups should also be encouraged.

1.4. The developmental and environmental objectives of Agenda 21 will require a substantial 
flow of new and additional financial resources to developing countries, in order to cover the 
incremental costs for the actions they have to undertake to deal with global environmental 
problems and to accelerate sustainable development. Financial resources are also required for 
strengthening the capacity of international institutions for the implementation of Agenda 21. 
An indicative order of magnitude assessment of costs is included in each of the programme 
areas. This assessment will need to be examined and refined by the relevant implementing 
agencies and organizations.

1.5. In the implementation of the relevant programme areas identified in Agenda 21, special at
tention should be given to the particular circumstances facing the economies in transition. 
It must also be recognized that these countries are facing unprecedented challenges in 
transforming their economies, in some cases in the midst of considerable social and political 
tension.

1.6. The programme areas that constitute Agenda 21 are described in terms of the basis for 
action, objectives, activities and means of implementation. Agenda 21 is a dynamic programme. 
It will be carried out by the various actors according to the different situations, capacities
and priorities of countries and in full respect of all the principles contained in the Rio 
Declaration on Environment and Development. It could evolve over time in the light of changing
needs and circumstances. This process marks the beginning of a new global partnership for 
sustainable development.

1.7. Throughout Agenda 21 the term "environmentally sound" means "environmentally safe and 
sound", in particular when applied to the terms "energy sources", "energy supplies", "energy 
systems", or "technology/technologies".


Notes

1/ When the term Governments is used, it will be deemed to include the European Economic 
Community within its areas of competence.A:21 Preamble (Ch. 1), Advance CopyPage 1




AGENDA 21, CHAPTER 2

SECTION I. SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC DIMENSIONS

INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION TO ACCELERATE SUSTAINABLEDEVELOPMENT IN DEVELOPING COUNTRIES AND 
RELATED DOMESTIC POLICIES



NOTE: This is a final, advanced version of a chapter of Agenda 21, as adopted by the Plenary 
in Rio de Janeiro, on June 14, 1992. This document will be further edited, translated into 
the official languages, and published by the United Nations for the General Assembly this 
autumn.



........../2


INTRODUCTION

2.1. In order to meet the challenges of environment and development, States decided to 
establish a new global partnership. This partnership commits all States to engage in a 
continuous and constructive dialogue, inspired by the need to achieve a more efficient and 
equitable world economy, keeping in view the increasing interdependence of the community of 
nations, and that sustainable development should become a priority item on the agenda of the 
international community. It is recognized that, for the success of this new partnership, it 
is important to overcome confrontation and to foster a climate of genuine cooperation and 
solidarity. It is equally important to strengthen national and international policies and 
multinational cooperation to adapt to the new realities.



